Description


We are rapidly approaching a civilization in which knowing how to code is a must-have skill for everyone. Where every student in the country should have a basic understanding of coding from the very beginning, the traditional education curriculum allows students to be introduced to coding at the upper secondary level. By arranging events and seminars to educate students on how to code, a few clubs at various educational institutions play a significant role in increasing the popularity of coding among students. Despite their eagerness, most students do not have access to these groups and hence are unable to obtain help on how to begin their coding careers. 

Because each educational club operates independently, they confront numerous challenges when it comes to planning events and workshops. They are also missing out on many chances due to a lack of connectivity.

For that purpose, the ProgramNexus project will focus on partnering with as many IT clubs as possible and developing a web application to keep information and resources generated by those clubs on a single platform. Furthermore, event management will play a significant role in this project. Because most clubs will be connected to a single platform, they will be able to take advantage of a variety of perks, including access to speakers and instructors, increased funding, campus ambassador support, comprehensive marketing, and web development assistance. This project will also assist students in forming an IT club at their institution if one does not already exist.


This project has not been officially announced. But initial planning has been completed in order to execute this project. The entire project is categorized into three phases.
Preparation Phase
During this phase, we will develop a database site where information about existing IT clubs will be collected. This phase will also include data collection and storage. We have started this phase in July and will continue in August.

Collaboration Phase
Meetings with the president and the authority of various clubs will be planned during this phase in order to carry out the collaboration agreement. Following that, we will establish a resources portal where we will showcase various types of learning materials offered by our collaborators. We'll also start promoting the project on digital media so that more students may get involved and start their coding journey. The phase will start from September and will continue to the mid of November.


Improvisation Phase
The ProgramNexus project's most essential phase is this one. We will support various clubs to organize events together. This page will start right after the collaboration phase. If we are able to conduct collaboration agreements with a number of IT clubs, we will start working with those clubs in this phase. 



We are currently going through the ‘Preparation Phase’. Our database site is being developed and we have completed a preliminary study into our chances of launching this initiative and the current state of IT clubs in Bangladesh. Here are the results of our research work - 

The sources of these data are Wikipedia, Unicef and reports of multiple prestigious newspapers of Bangladesh

 
According to our data, there are over 25,000 high schools and colleges in Bangladesh, yet not every high school offers club possibilities to its students. The majority of students in those institutions do not engage in any extracurricular activities. According to our research, approximately 50 institutions in these criteria have an active informational technology club, implying that IT-related study is not widely practised in the majority of our country's schools and colleges. This is one of the major reasons for Bangladesh lagging behind in the field of technology.

Despite the fact that over 50 colleges have an active IT club, only 20-25 of them hold events and workshops on a regular basis. However, the worrying thing is that most of the activities were unable to take place due to a lack of qualified instructors, adequate money, and efficient promotion. Only 12-15 notable Bangladeshi institutions are capable of launching successful events due to their ability to manage funds. They do, however, have a number of marketing-related concerns. 

	This report reflects the current poor situation of Bangladesh's IT clubs. Only about 0.12% of high schools conduct IT-related events and workshops. But the excellent news is that networking amongst IT clubs has the potential to substantially alter this situation. A connectivity platform is now a requirement of time. We believe  ProgramNexus can play a significant role in this regard.

For this project, We are also gathering public data of IT clubs of some prestigious educational institutions of Bangladesh. We have collected data about their initiatives and resources. Some of them are - 

Rajuk Uttara Model College
Notre Dame College
Dhaka Residential Model College
Adamjee Cantonment College
Ideal School and College
Saint Joseph Higher Secondary School
BAF Shaheen College
Dhaka College
Bir Shreshtha Noor Mohammad Public College
Government Laboratory High School
Dhaka Commerce College
Government Science College

We intended to contact these institutions' IT clubs initially. After that, we'll work out a collaborative agreement. We believe it is possible to build a coding culture in many institutions across our country with the support of these existing clubs.


Here is the link to the web platform that we are currently developing:
https://as8-org-db.herokuapp.com/core/

You can see the source code on GitHub: https://github.com/The-AS8-organization/AS8-ORG-Database-Application
