Why did you choose this idea?


There is a backstory to how it all began and how our team came up with this idea. I (Ahammad Shawki) am a Rajuk Uttara Model College student who began coding a little earlier than the rest of the students. I was 12 years old when I ran my first console  "Hello World" program. When I started as a school student, the path wasn't smooth for me. At some points, I felt I was the only sailor in the vast ocean. There weren't enough guidelines available for me at that time.

In our institution, a new club arose after a few days. Rajuk College Robotics Club was its name. In fact, among all Bangladeshi colleges, RUMC was the first to establish an IT-related club. This club held weekly sessions for young enthusiastic learners to teach them how to code and the fundamentals of robotics. The Robotics Club also organized a number of competitions and events.

However, Rajuk College Robotics Club remained dormant after a year, and all of their sessions and other activities were halted. During that time, I felt confident enough to explore new topics and learn new technologies without the assistance of a group or mentor. But despite having enthusiasm, many other students struggled to get started with programming. I was able to address some of my friends' concerns and assist them in their coding pursuits, but I soon discovered the bigger picture was considerably worse.

Not only in our institution but in every educational institution in Bangladesh, there are plenty of students who wish to learn to code. However, many lack the motivation to continue or even begin learning due to a lack of competent supervision. Many organizations now have their own IT clubs. And I've learned from my past experiences that these groups can play a critical part in resolving this problem.

During my research, I also discovered that many clubs confront a variety of challenges, ranging from obtaining adequate funds for their next event to a time-consuming campus ambassador recruitment process for extended promotion. As a result, many clubs, such as the Rajuk College Robotics Club, have closed their doors.

I formed a team to address this problem, and after several discussions, our team decided that only a linking platform between these IT clubs could solve the problem of proper guidance and mentorship for young learners and those IT clubs could also benefit from this initiative in a multitude of ways. After a few iterations and a lot of studies, we've produced the initial plan for completing this project. We believe this concept will be successful because - 

This concept is feasible to implement and scalable enough.
Students can access all the resources completely free of cost.
It is overall an excellent deal for IT clubs as well.
We have put this concept to the test and received a lot of great feedback.
We'll use a human-centred design thinking approach to overcome this issue.
Many students and professionals have faced these difficulties and they have also suggested that we should work on similar solutions.
There is less competition in this genre and a greater need for platforms like this.
Moreover, the lockdown has also allowed many pupils to concentrate on their extracurricular activities.
There are several successful examples of such platforms that work around the world, however, no platform has implemented or planned this solution in Bangladesh before.


The era of the 21st century is completely technology & knowledge-based. We gained independence in 1971, comparatively later than many other countries. As a result, our technological infrastructure also started to develop around 2005 which is also later than most of the developed countries. The good news is that there is a faster development concept known as leapfrogging, which illustrates that if a country falls behind in terms of technology, it can take some practical and sensible actions to catch up to other tech giants. The primary assumption behind leapfrogging is that minor, incremental changes will keep our country ahead of the curve. 

We have not constructed a coding culture in our educational system yet, but our next-door country India has already included coding as a fundamental subject of study in their school educational system. As a result, we believe that undertaking such initiatives like ProgramNexus will greatly assist us to advance our country ahead in terms of technological development.
